Voice docs updates (#35885)
home-assistant/home-assistant.github.io: source/voice_control/assign_areas_floors.markdown

---
title: "Assigning devices to areas and areas to floors"
related:
  - docs: /docs/organizing/areas/
    title: Areas
  - docs: /docs/organizing/floors/
    title: Floors
  - docs: /voice_control/custom_sentences/
    title: Assist - custom sentences
  - docs: /voice_control/best_practices/
    title: Best practices with Assist
---

Another best practice with Assist is to create an architecture of areas and floors in your home, since it will make it consistent and easy to understand for Assist.

### To create missing areas 

> 1. Go to Settings > Areas, Labels & Zones

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Go to {% my zones title="**Settings** > **Areas, labels & zones**" %}.
```
we have my links for these :heart:

> 2. Click on Create area

Reviewer: ```suggestion
2. Select **Create area**.
```
- We use [select instead of click](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/style-guide/a-z-word-list-term-collections/c/click)
- We use bold to markup UI elements

### To create missing floors

> 1. Go to Settings > Areas, Labels & Zones

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Go to  {% my zones title="**Settings** > **Areas, labels & zones**" %}.
```

> 2. Click on Create floor

Reviewer: ```suggestion
2. Select **Create floor**.
```

> 3. Inside the floor creation dialog, you will be able to assign areas to it

Reviewer: ```suggestion
3. In the floor creation dialog, assign the related areas.
```

### To assign areas to existing floors

> 1. Go to Settings > Areas, Labels & Zones

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Go to  {% my zones title="**Settings** > **Areas, labels & zones**" %}.
```

> 2. Click on the ... icon on a floor

Reviewer: ```suggestion
2. Next to the floor name, select the three dots {% icon "mdi:dots-vertical" %} menu.
```
We have these icons we can use inline.

> 3. Click on Edit Floor

Reviewer: ```suggestion
3. Select **Edit floor**.
```

> 4. Assign your areas to this floor

Reviewer: ```suggestion
4. Assign your areas to this floor.
```

> ### To assign a device to an area

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### To assign a device to an area

```

> 1. Go to Settings > Devices and Services > Devices

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Go to {% my devices title="**Settings** > **Devices & services** > **Devices**" %}.
```

> 2. Click on a device

Reviewer: ```suggestion
2. Select the device.
```

> 3. Click on the pencil icon in the top bar of the device page

Reviewer: ```suggestion
3. In the top bar of the device page, select the pencil {% icon "mdi:pencil" %} icon.
```

> 4. Assign it to an area

Reviewer: ```suggestion
4. Assign it to an area.
```
